README.md, before:

# Treasure

Treasure is a small set of tools on top of Lyft's [Mapper](https://github.com/lyft/mapper) library to convert objects according to the [JSON API](http://jsonapi.org) specification. If you're not using the JSON API specification, then only using Mapper should be sufficient.

## Installation

#### With [CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org/)

```ruby
use_frameworks!

pod "Treasure"
```

## Usage

Treasure hinges on [Mapper](https://github.com/lyft/mapper). If you're not familiar with it, then go read up on it first.

Objects must conform to the `Resource` protocol, which conforms to Mapper's `Mappable` protocol.

`Key` provides convenient constants and functions to construct String keys for Mapper.

Relationships are represented by either a `ToOneRelationship` or a `ToManyRelationship`.

Relationships can be used to map included resources, which are placed into a shared data pool as received by Treasure. 

Included resources are not cached, so the data pool will only exist for the current lifecycle.

Incoming resources will be validated, and if invalid the initializer will return `nil`. Validation errors will be thrown as a `DocumentValidationError`.

```swift
import Treasure

struct Project: Resource {
    
    let id: String
    let type: String
    let title: String
    let manager: User?

    init(map: TreasureMapper) throws {
        id = try map.from(Key.id)
        type = try map.from(Key.type)
        title = try map.from(Key.attributes("title"))
        
        let managerRelationship: ToOneRelationship? = try? map.from(Key.relationships("users"))
        manager = try? map.from(managerRelationship)
    }
}
```

You can then map to your object by instantiating a new Treasure with your received JSON.

```swift
if let json = json as? [String: Any] {
    let projects: [Project]? = Treasure(json: json)?.map()
}
```

Other top-level JSON API objects can be accessed through your Treasure instance.

```swift
if let json = json as? [String: Any] {

    let treasure = Treasure(json: json)
    let projects: [Project]? = treasure?.map()
    
    guard projects != nil else {
        print(treasure.errors)
    }
}
```

You can build JSON API resources for update or creation via the `jsonForResourceUpdateWith` and `jsonForResourceWith` static functions.

These functions validate the built resource and will `assert(false)` if invalid. If you use the below process to create your JSON, the built resource should be valid.

```swift
let toOneRelationship = ToOneRelationship.jsonWith(key: "users", data: RelationshipData(type: "users", id: "4"))

let newProject = Treasure.jsonForResourceWith(type: "projects", attributes: ["title": "Test Project"], relationship: toOneRelationship)
```

The above call will build the following resource, which you can POST to your backend service for creation.

```json
"data": {
    "type": "projects",
    "attributes": {
        "title": "Test Project"
    },
    "relationships": {
        "users": {
            "data": {
                "type": "users",
                "id": "4"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

If you would like to persist the data pool, you can retrieve it as `Data` by using `Treasure.chestData()`, and store it back using `Treasure.store(data: Data)`

## License

Treasure is available under the MIT license. See the LICENSE file for more info.

Lyft's Mapper is available under the Apache 2.0 License

Commit message:

Add flag for optional strict validation on initialization

README.md, after:

# Treasure

Treasure is a small set of tools on top of Lyft's [Mapper](https://github.com/lyft/mapper) library to convert objects according to the [JSON API](http://jsonapi.org) specification. If you're not using the JSON API specification, then only using Mapper should be sufficient.

## Installation

#### With [CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org/)

```ruby
use_frameworks!

pod "Treasure"
```

## Usage

Treasure hinges on [Mapper](https://github.com/lyft/mapper). If you're not familiar with it, then go read up on it first.

Objects must conform to the `Resource` protocol, which conforms to Mapper's `Mappable` protocol.

`Key` provides convenient constants and functions to construct String keys for Mapper.

Relationships are represented by either a `ToOneRelationship` or a `ToManyRelationship`.

Relationships can be used to map included resources, which are placed into a shared data pool as received by Treasure. 

Included resources are not cached, so the data pool will only exist for the current lifecycle.

If you set `Treasure.strictValidationOnInitialization` to `true`, Incoming resources will be validated, and if invalid the initializer will return `nil`. Validation errors will be thrown as a `DocumentValidationError`. If `false`, errors will still be thrown but the resource map may still succeed.

```swift
import Treasure

struct Project: Resource {
    
    let id: String
    let type: String
    let title: String
    let manager: User?

    init(map: TreasureMapper) throws {
        id = try map.from(Key.id)
        type = try map.from(Key.type)
        title = try map.from(Key.attributes("title"))
        
        let managerRelationship: ToOneRelationship? = try? map.from(Key.relationships("users"))
        manager = try? map.from(managerRelationship)
    }
}
```

You can then map to your object by instantiating a new Treasure with your received JSON.

```swift
if let json = json as? [String: Any] {
    let projects: [Project]? = Treasure(json: json)?.map()
}
```

Other top-level JSON API objects can be accessed through your Treasure instance.

```swift
if let json = json as? [String: Any] {

    let treasure = Treasure(json: json)
    let projects: [Project]? = treasure?.map()
    
    guard projects != nil else {
        print(treasure.errors)
    }
}
```

You can build JSON API resources for update or creation via the `jsonForResourceUpdateWith` and `jsonForResourceWith` static functions.

These functions validate the built resource and will `assert(false)` if invalid. If you use the below process to create your JSON, the built resource should be valid.

```swift
let toOneRelationship = ToOneRelationship.jsonWith(key: "users", data: RelationshipData(type: "users", id: "4"))

let newProject = Treasure.jsonForResourceWith(type: "projects", attributes: ["title": "Test Project"], relationship: toOneRelationship)
```

The above call will build the following resource, which you can POST to your backend service for creation.

```json
"data": {
    "type": "projects",
    "attributes": {
        "title": "Test Project"
    },
    "relationships": {
        "users": {
            "data": {
                "type": "users",
                "id": "4"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

If you would like to persist the data pool, you can retrieve it as `Data` by using `Treasure.chestData()`, and store it back using `Treasure.store(data: Data)`

## License

Treasure is available under the MIT license. See the LICENSE file for more info.

Lyft's Mapper is available under the Apache 2.0 License
